#summary image.class.php
#labels Phase-Implementation

= Image.class.php =

Image.class.php is the framework upon which everything in PHP Image sits. It contains methods for creating new images, opening existing images, attaching plugins, outputting images, and a few helper methods that plugins can access for things like dimensions, colors and calculated stuff like convolution and displacement.

== __Construct ==

__construct() is called whenever a new image object is instantiated. It accepts one or two parameters. If one parameter is passed then it is assumed to be a filename, and the image at that location is opened. If two parameters are passed they are assumed to be dimensions and a truecolor image that size is created.

== Attaching plugins ==

There are two plugin functions - attachePlugin() and evaluateFXStack(). attachPlugin() adds a new plugin to the plugin stack. evaluateFXStack() is called when an image is outputted and runs the attached plugins.

== Image Creation ==

There are 3 image creation methods:

  * createImage() - Creates an 8 bit palette image. Accepts 3 parameters: width, height and a background color.
  * createImageTrueColor() - Creates a 32 bit true color image. Accepts 3 parameters: width, height and a background color.
  * createImageTrueColorTransparent() - Creates a 32 bit true color image with a transparent background. Accepts 2 parameters: width and height.

== Opening Existing Images ==

There is only one method for creating an image from an existing file - openImage(). The file specified will be examined and which GD function for opening it will be determined automatically, then the file will be opened properly if the format is supported.

== Image Output ==

There are 3 image output methods:

  * imageGif() - Outputs a GIF image.
  * imagePng() - Outputs a PNG image.
  * imageJpeg() - Outputs a JPEG image.

All three output methods work the same way as their PHP counterparts. All will run the FX stack prior to generating an image.

== Working with colors ==

== Helper Functions ==

== Magic Functions ==

== Private Functions ==